
> At the beginning of last semester I was aiming to obtain the data analytics minor. I had already taken quite a few of the required classes through my economics track and I had already taken Csc-121 with Dr. Abernethy so I understood basic Python. I had heard that Csc-272 Data Mining wasn’t a terribly difficult course and mostly focused on theories, not programming. Apparently the section I was taking with Dr. Sultan was quite the opposite and meant to teach you how to program in a new language which I was unaware of at the time of signing up for the course. By about the third week of classes I realized that this class was going to be an absolute slog and was going to weigh down the grades in my other courses if I aimed for a B or higher. I made the decision to aim for a D in this class thus giving me the time and energy to maintain higher grades in all of my other courses. I also decided that I was no longer going to pursue the Data analytics minor even though I would need only 1 more class after this one.
> I devised a semester long plan to achieving a D in the class by getting 100’s in all Labs (worth 10% of final grade), 100’s in all written assignments (worth 10% of final grade), doing decent in the class participation (worth 10% of final grade), and finally doing well on the class project (worth 30% of final grade). I noticed how demanding exams were going to be early on in the course and also took note that they were worth 40% of the total course grade. I decided that I would essentially try to get just enough points on them to make up for what I missed on class participation and that this should eventually lead to me getting roughly a D.

> At about the 3rd week of the semester, Dr. Sultan stated that we needed to make groups for the class project, groups should be 2-3 members. I thought that I was going to group with the person sitting next to me in class because I knew them from one of my clubs but as the deadline for the first phase of the project drew nearer they stopped showing up to class. I eventually ran into them in the dining hall and asked if they wanted to work on the project together to which they replied that they had dropped out of the class. This meant that I obviously needed to find a new group quickly as the deadline had just passed. I decided to ask one of the students who I had been routinely working on labs with, Andrew Farrell, if I could join his group and he told me to ask his other groupmate Gregory Kubista. I asked Gregory and he said he was cool with me joining.
As the semester went on, we were regularly met with assignments for the next phases of our project to complete. Usually what ended up happening was we would receive the assignment and it was stated to be due in roughly 2-3 weeks. Gregory would immediately begin working on it. As a group we would agree to meet at some given time. When we eventually met up, Gregory would have already completed most of the assignment. Gregory was pretty much doing most of the project by himself but Andrew and I didn’t complain because he was a significantly better programmer than either of us. Occasionally he would ask us to do a section by ourselves but
 when we went to work on it we were not familiar with the code that was used in the previous section that this section relied on, leading us to asking him for help.
By the end of the semester, almost the entire code could be attributed to Gregory and so we had one final assignment. That was to create a Final Project Report in which we summarized our entire process and our findings. On this step Andrew and I did a sizable chunk of the work and Gregory went in afterwards to basically correct any mistakes we may have made. We spent hours working on this to make sure it was exactly what Dr. Sultan wanted to maximize the chances of us receiving a 100 for this grade. At the very end of the project there was a section that required us to state what percent of the work each member did on the total project and what assignments each person was given. Having joined the group late and being unable to help on the programming side of the project, I said that I did about 8% of the work. I believed Andrew to be in a similar situation as me, only he was there for the preliminary steps so I said he did about 12% and then I said that Gregory did 80%. No where in the syllabus, or on the document that we were basing our final project on did it say that participation percent was going to impact our grade for the project.
We turn in our projects, we take the final exam, and the class is officially done. I look back at my grades and I received a 100% for Labs, a 100% for written assignments, a 50% for class participation and a 19.33% for exams. Based on some quick math, I was sitting at a 32.7% for the class without the project grade factored in. I anticipated that we would be getting a high A on our project resulting in me passing the class but during christmas break when I looked at my final grades I had received a 42.73% in the class. This struck me as odd because that was much lower than what my calculations had forecasted for me so I looked at moodle and I received a 33% for the final project. I immediately texted Gregory and Andrew what they received on the final project, Andrew stated that he received a C, and Gregory a Low A.
Obviously our participation percent had factored into the grading but a couple things were off. First: why was Andrew’s grade so much higher than mine? I thought he and I did similar amounts of the work. Second: if Gregory had done so much of the project, why did he only receive a Low A, especially when this project was tailored specifically to what Dr. Sultan wanted. Third: why are we getting different grades in the first place? Nowhere was it stated that we would be receiving our grades based on participation because if we had known about this we would have absolutely been trying to even out the participation during the process. I have never been in a group project before where students received different grades but if I had, I imagine that the professor would have made an announcement about it, especially when it counts for 30% of the total course grade.
I emailed Dr. Sultan on December 20th asking why my grade was so low on the project and he responded on January 3rd with “Sorry for the very late response. I was on vacation and travelling. Your low grade in the project is because you did very little work (8% to be precise, self-reported) on the project. This corroborates with what was reported by your group members as well.”

I waited to get back to campus to talk to my advisor, Dr. Jason Jones about the predicament and he told me to get in touch with Dean Longest. I talked to Dean Longest and he said to email you for my next step. All I ask is that I receive Low A on the project so that I may pass this class. I’ve done the calculations and a 91 or above would grant me a 60 in the class giving me my 4 credit hours.